---
title: "2023 May recap"
description: "What I'm been up to in May 2023"
date: 2023-06-11T13:17:03+00:00
tags: ["general", "monthly-recap"]
categories: ["general", "monthly-recap"]
author: "Mathias Haugsbø"
showToc: false
---

# 2023 may

I have been inspired by some of the other blogs I follow to start writing a monthly recap of what I have been up to.
Some of the excellent blogs I read:

- [Tim Hårek](https://timharek.no/blog/2023-may-recently/)
- [Tom Mac Wright](https://macwright.com/2023/06/01/recently.html)
- [Pengeblogg](https://pengeblogg.bloggnorge.com/2023/01/31/2023-status-etter-januar/)
- [Sindre Kjelsrud](https://kjelsrud.dev/blog-posts/life/may23/)

I have not decided on the format yet but I have always wanted to write about the following topics:

- Finances
- Work
- Personal projects
- Recap from my Daylio app

## Finances

I have been tracking spendings and net worth since mid 2018 and it's very interesting to see how much money I spend on for example beer. I have a Google sheet where I import bank statements every 3-4 month and manually mark the transactions with a category. In the future I would like to automate this with some fancy classification, either on the text or with fancy machine learning.
I would also like to automate import of transactions using the banks API, using the amazing free service [GoCardless (previously Nordigen)](https://gocardless.com/bank-account-data/) which enables API access to thousands of banks in EU.

### Spendings

I have not tracked may's spending yet, might update later.

### Net worth

May was a quite decent month in finance. Crypto had approximately 0% change and the index funds increased by approximately 4%. Quite happy with my current investments, I am actively looking for a potential Real Estate investment project to invest in, either renovate or just rent out. Let's see what happens in the next year.

## Work life

May have been an exciting month for my career by leading the hiring process of three new junior developers at ScanReach. The goal is that I will have the main responsibility for their development and growth in the company. I am very excited to see how this will go.

We started with 71 applicants

-> held 18 speed interviews

-> invited 8 to finale interviews where I created a task for them to solve and present. The task did not include any coding tasks as I think coding can be learned. While understanding for product domain and how advanced computer programs work (more complicated than snapchat and instagram) is much harder to learn.

-> Out of the 8 we found and hired 3 very good candidates. I'm looking forward to see how they will develop and grow in the company.

## Personal projects

May has been quite dry on the personal project side. I have not spent as much time as I want on my "Real estate scraper + analytics tool". It's a project I have been working on for a while. It started as Google sheet with some formulas calulcating rental profitability, but I would like to automate this process for all listings on Finn.no (Norwegian craigslist).

## Daylio recap

I have been using the [Daylio app](https://daylio.net/) for 1588 days (over 4 years). It's a very low effort and easy to use app that enables you to track what activites you do and how you are feeling by sending you a notifiation once every evening.

By using Daylio I am able to see what activities make my day better, and it's fun to see how often I have worked out last month etc.

### Activites done in May 2023

| Activity          | Number of days |
| ----------------- | -------------- |
| Friends           | 21             |
| Work              | 19             |
| Sun               | 17             |
| Relaxing          | 11             |
| Good food         | 9              |
| TV Series/Movies  | 8              |
| Rain              | 8              |
| Beer              | 7              |
| Weight lifting    | 7              |
| Cloudy            | 7              |
| Party             | 5              |
| Tired             | 5              |
| Programming       | 4              |
| Dates             | 3              |
| Bouldering        | 3              |
| Bath in the ocean | 1              |

- I have over time found that my day is always better if I go out and meet poeple. So I actively try to find people to hang out with. Which is reflected in the numbers above with 21/31 days.
- May have also been a good sunny month which lead to less time for indoor activities like programming.

Overall may have been a very good month with an high average mood.
